doc: Add Ubidots integration guide (#2835)
TheThingsNetwork/lorawan-stack: doc/content/integrations/webhooks/cloud-integrations/ubidots/ubidots-setup/_index.md

---
title: "Ubidots Setup"
description: ""
weight: 1
---

Create a function by following these instructions to prepare Ubidots setup for the integration with {{% tts %}}. This function will handle the conversion of incoming messages from JSON format to the one that is compatible with Ubidots.

<!--more-->

> Log in to your Ubidots account and find **Devices** tab in the upper part of your dashboard. In its drop-down list, choose **Functions**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Log in to your Ubidots account and find the **Devices** tab in the upper part of your dashboard. In its drop-down list, choose **Functions**.
```

> When redirected to **UbiFunctions** page, create a new function with **Create Function** button.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When redirected to the **UbiFunctions** page, create a new function with the **Create Function** button.
```

> On the left, give a **Name** to your function, select **POST** method and choose **Python 3.6** for **Runtime**.

Reviewer: Plz add a screenshot here

Author: This is all covered with the screenshot at the end of this file. I put it at the end because the screenshot is containing the **HTTP Endpoint URL**, which is obtained after completing all the steps. Should I move it?

> On the left, give a **Name** to your function, select **POST** method and choose **Python 3.6** for **Runtime**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On the left, give a **Name** to your function, select the **POST** method and choose **Python 3.6** for **Runtime**.
```

> In function window, paste this code:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example, we will use the following Python function, which receives a JSON payload from {{% tts %}}, extracts the `decoded_payload`, and prints data received from the device.
```

def tti_dev_eui(data):
    return data['end_device_ids']['device_id']

def update_device(device, payload, token):
    """
    Updates device with payload
    """
    url = "{}/api/v1.6/devices/{}".format(BASE_URL, device)
    headers = {"X-Auth-Token": token, "Content-Type": "application/json"}
    req = create_request(url, headers, attempts=5, request_type="post", data=payload)
    return req

def create_request(url, headers, attempts, request_type, data=None):
    """
    Function to make a request to the server
    """
    request_func = getattr(requests, request_type)
    kwargs = {"url": url, "headers": headers}
    if request_type == "post" or request_type == "patch":
        kwargs["json"] = data
    try:
        req = request_func(**kwargs)
        status_code = req.status_code
        time.sleep(1)
        while status_code >= 400 and attempts < 5:
            req = request_func(**kwargs)
            status_code = req.status_code
            attempts += 1
            time.sleep(1)
        return req
    except Exception as e:
        print("[ERROR] There was an error with the request, details:")
        print(e)
        return None
```

> Since this function needs your token to be entered on the sixth line, you can find and copy it from **Tokens** if you click on your avatar in the upper right corner and select **API Credentials**. 

Reviewer: Is this a Ubidots token or tts? Why does the Ubidots function need a token if its running inside Ubidots?

Author: It's a Ubidots token and is used because the UbiFunction engine acts like a mediator - it takes JSON from TTS, then parses it and makes an API request to post data to Ubidots. The HTTP POST from TTS webhook is addressed on the UbiFunction, while the UbiFunction makes an actual POST request to Ubidots after processing the message. I was following their example: https://help.ubidots.com/en/articles/3975015-integrate-your-the-things-industries-data-with-ubidots-using-ubifunctions

> >Note: for the purpose of integrating only **Tokens** can be used, while **API Key** is used exclusively for deriving tokens.

Reviewer: I don't understand this line

Author: When you go to **API Credentials** in Ubidots, you can find **API Key** and **Tokens**. API Key is only used for deriving tokens and cannot be used as a token in the code above, only one of the tokens from **Tokens** can be used. Is that it?

Reviewer: Move this note above the bash script

```suggestion
>Note: to find your **Token**, click on your avatar in the upper right corner and select **API Credentials**. Be sure to use your **Token** and not your **API Key**.
```

> After modifying the function code with your token, click on **Make it live** button. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After modifying the function code with your token, click the **Make it live** button. 
```

> Once you do so, you can see that your function is assigned with an **HTTPS Endpoint URL**. Copy this URL in order to use it later as a part of setup on {{% tts %}}. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your function will be assigned an **HTTPS Endpoint URL**. Copy this URL in order to use it later as a part of setup on {{% tts %}}. 
```

{{< figure src="creating-function.png" alt="Creating a UbiFunction" >}}

> When the function is created, it is ready to process the incoming messages from {{% tts %}}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your function is now ready to process incoming messages from {{% tts %}}.
```
